- [Instructor] Let's get started with a demo for convertors.
We are going to write a custom convertor reset.
So let's go through the steps one by one.
First is, let's define an enum for gender.
So we are at our IDE now, and under the beans folder,
let's create a Java class for gender.
And I'm going to change the style to enum and start a class.
So what options could this have?
Male, female, and other.
I have to make sure that I separate that by commas.
The next step will be to define a custom convertor class
which implements convertor interface.
We are at our IDE again.
I'm first going to create a separate package
for convertors under com dot test dot hplus.
So let's right-click and create a package,
specifically to accommodate all convertors.
And inside that, we will write a class,
which is, let's say, string to enum convertor.
And this one is going to implement the convertor interface,
which comes from org dot spring framework
dot core dot convert package.
And this will allow us to transform values
from string to a gender type.
So let's define that in gender's syntax.
Then, let's add the unimplemented methods.
There's just one method that we need to override,
implement, essentially, in this.
That's convert.
It gives you a string value which you're going
to convert to a gender type of value.
The next step will be to add the conversion logic.
So we are going to basically provide
a very simple conversion logic here.
What we do is we'll say
if the incoming string value is going to be equal
to this, male.
So this is the value that you select
from the HTML dropdown on your register form.
So if that value is this,
then you simply return the gender option of male.
If not, then you can compare that value to female,
because that may be the next value
that is probably selected.
In that case, you just return gender dot female.
And the last value, for that,
you just go ahead and return gender dot other.
Simple?
So this is simple logic.
Map the HTML dropdown element value
to a corresponding gender type value, which is a enum.
The next step, we'll need to register the convertor
in the configuration.
Since this is a custom convertor,
we will have to make Spring aware
that we are going to use it in our application.
So let's come to application config,
and in this, we can overwrite a method
called add formatters.
There you go.
Individual assist you need it for it.
It comes with a formatter registry parameter.
This is going to help us to register the convertor class
that we wrote a minute ago.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's add registry dot add convertors.
That's the API call.
And you just have to instantiate your string
to enum convertor.
That is it.
Also remember that in the user class,
the gender is right now of the data right string.
So this is something that we have to change,
because we want to convert the string gender
from the form to a gender by gender on the Java site.
So this, I'm going to change now
to the gender data byte.
However, if we change it here,
remember that we have to definitely change getter setters.
So let's amend that.
Now the next thing is test and run the application.
But there's one small tweak here that we need to do.
When we have the string value converted
to the gender value,
and then when that entire registration data is persisted
to the database, by default,
Spring JPA is going to save the ordinal of the enum.
What I mean to say is this enum has three values,
and each of them is presented by an ordinal.
Zero, one, two, et cetera.
Now, we don't want an ordinal number
to be stored in the database.
Of course, if you wish to store the number,
you're free to do that.
But we, right now, do not want that.
Instead, we want that this string in uppercase,
male, female, other, either of those we just selected,
that exactly gets saved to the database.
In order to do that tree, you have to go
to your user view, and on top of your gender variable,
there is one annotation called at enumerated,
which is available in the Java extra persistence package.
To this, you have to provide an argument,
which is enum type.
So you see it as an enum type dot string,
and there is an enum type dot ordinal.
So by default, there's an enum type ordinal,
which would be saved, but we do not want that.
Instead, we want enum type string to persisted.
So that's the small tweak that you need to do.
So once we are done, the last step is
to build and run the application.
So let's go ahead and run this build.
So now, let's open our browser.
Let's go to the homepage first.
Log in, click on register, and let's enter all the data.
I am going to say Monica Geller.
Password according to the regular expression
that we have put so that it passes the validation.
Enter the first name, the last name.
Monica Geller would want to play a sport, I'm sure.
So 12, let's say 20 December, 1998 whatever.
And let's select female.
So once we select this data, let's submit.
Yeah, and the data was saved successfully.
Now let's go to the database and run a select query,
and if you see, now the gender
that is stored is the enum string.
Before this, when we were storing values to the application,
they were stored like this.
It was the HTML dropdown element values,
which was stored as they were on the HTML form.
But now, we converted into this gender value,
and that's how you see it was listed in the database.
So that is how you run a simple convertors demo.
Let's do a small thing here.
You're just going to correct all the links,
the hyperlinks that we have,
to the correct URL pattern of the controllers.
So on the index JSP, we have already done
with the login and the search orders.
They have been mapped properly.
Let's just make sure that the rest of them are
also mapped properly.
So, home is going to point to home.
Let's go over to the next JSP, login JSP, and find out
if all the menu links have been mapped correctly.
No, they are not.
So I'm going to do that.
Home.
This will be go to search, of course with the forward slash.
And we have not coded this yet, so let this be as is.
Next the register JSP.
Let's also check the links.
So all of these URL patterns, as you already know,
we have already defined the home controller,
but we did not attach them to the URL nav bar on the page.
So I'm just doing that right now.
Home, again, this will be go to search,
and this will be login.
And then let's look at search.
Okay, so we have to have home here,
then here we have go to login.
This will be slash go to search.
And this is something that we've not coded yet.
All right.
So we have corrected the links on all the pages
so that we can navigate essentially
from any page to anywhere.